# Initial Meeting

2021-08-19 15:00-16:00 BST Zoom

## Background 

Meeting prompted by the EPSRC Equitable Digital Society [call announcement](https://www.ukri.org/opportunity/enabling-an-equitable-digital-society/), archived [here](../pdf/EPSRC-EquitableDigitalSociety-Call.pdf).

Initial provocation from Tim D. (20/7/2021 via email): 
> I think there is an angle here around equitable access to educational artefacts (interactives, remote labs etc) that are open-source, remixable, with co-operative/distributed/peer-to-peer architectures that prevent any one service supplier from holding a federation of worldwide users to hostage; and then that overlaps neatly with your individual interests in different ways. 

## Attendees

### Present

- (Chair) Prof Tim Drysdale - Chair of Technology Enhanced Science Education, School of Engineering
- Dr Jen Ross - Senior Lecturer in Digital Education, co-Director of the Centre for Research in Digital Education
- Dr Tim Fawns - Fellow in Clinical Education in the Centre for Medical Education, and Deputy Programme Director on the MSc in Clinical Education
- Lorna Campbell (CMALT) - Education Design and Engagement, Learning Teaching and Web Services, Information Services Group
- Stephanie Charlie Farley (CMALT, SFHEA) -  Educational Design and Engagement, Learning Teaching and Web Services, Information Services Group
- Joseph French - PhD student in Physics; currently creating GCSE STEM interactives for the web

### Apologies

- Prof Sian Bayne - Professor of Digital Education, Director of Education at the Edinburgh Futures Institute and Assistant Principal for Digital Education
- Dr Huw Davies - Lecturer in Digital Education (Data and Society), Moray House School of Education and Sport

## Agenda

0. Introductions 
1. EPSRC Equitable Digital Society Call
2. Capacity/Appetite to Respond to the Call
3. Formulating next steps for this grouping

## Minutes

### 0. Introductions

See Attendees section. Note that Lorna and Charlie are our OER team.

### 1. EPSRC call 

See slides [here](../pdf/Initial-Meeting-Slides.pdf)

### 2. Capacity/Appetite to Respond to the Call

Discussion: fairly straightforward decision in light of recent past, and ongoing, operational pressures to decline to submit to this particular call. Given the importance of this area, we can form a grouping to address the issue on a longer term basis and consider other funding avenues such as responsive mode, as well as being alert to other relevant targeted funding.

### 3. Formulating next steps for this grouping

This grouping is keen to work together.

Our OER team are encouraged and potentially able to take on a stakeholder role, rather than simply advisory, subject to appropriate line-management approvals. Rest of team would welcome closer engagement. OER team highlighted the importance of structuring open projects for openness from the beginning, and re-using existing work where appropriate. After discussing Tim F use of twitter for public/open drafting of diagrams we decided to experiment with publically planning this groups project work via this github.

#### What research questions are we interested in tackling?

The initial provocation highlighted the role that architectures will play. What architectures already exist, and why did they fail? What would we do differently? What could we re-use? What happened to Lionshare. Are we talking about a combined Uber/Netflix/Napster of Education?

There is a spectrum of resources from e-books (with immiment resourcing here across library sector), through to audio, video, interactives and remote labs. The common theme here is enabling fluidity in the resources - e.g. textbooks easily modified and re-worked to suit different cultures, rather than baked-solid, shiny, unchangeable artefacts - together with open access at large scale and no single entity able to take it down. How to track all that re-working at such large scale and fine granularity? How to evaluate the value of that?

Other organisation are exploring what is meant by equity in this context - e.g. wikimedia 2030, knowledge as a service, and knowledge equity, e.g. see work in progress [here](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Strategy/Wikimedia_movement/2018-20/Recommendations/Movement_Strategy_Principles).

There is quite a lot to unpack in terms of what makes an equitable digital society - what are our fundamental philosophies/values that we can agree we share, and use as guiding principles in our work together? We don't want to enforce equity on anyone! However there is opportunity to increase equity across the world's education systems, e.g. meaningful lowering of barriers to reworkable educational resources in Low Miiddle Income Countries (LMIC). Tim D already pursuing remote labs from point of view of increasing equitableness in global south etc, with [some initial work on a single-site system already in use at Edinburgh](https://practable.io) and an earlier publication on the thinking behind what a combination of humans and digital artefacts might mean in response to the instrumental challenge of expensive practical work - i.e. there is additional value present, not simply an inexpensive replacement for traditional work (see [opinion piece](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/23752696.2020.1816845)).

Oozechain not blockchain ... Tim F is not joking about this. Tim D thinks the name represents current transaction speeds rather well. But a serious topic relating to security, trust, identity etc in any community interactions that would be taking place around flexible and fluid dynamic teaching artefacts.

Also questions around value and unintended consequences of supplying tooling to simplify/mitigate impact of limited digital literacies, e.g. for UI creation. 
#### Next group meeting

The next meeting of this group is suggested for October/November, once semester is rolling. Purpose of meeting - refine research questions. Please reflect inthe interim!








